# A summary of The Ten Commandments of Ethical Medical AI by Heimo Muller et al.

Monday, February 20, 2023 · 2 minute read


# A summary of *The Ten Commandments of Ethical Medical AI*

> Heimo Muller et al.; IEEE Computing Edge, October 2022 DOI \[0\]

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *The Ten Commandments of Ethical Medical AI*](#a-summary-of-the-ten-commandments-of-ethical-medical-ai)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Summary](#summary)
    - [Key Insights](#key-insights)
    - [The Ten Commandments](#the-ten-commandments)
  - [Citations](#citations)

______________________________________________________________________

## Summary

AI is recognized as a key component of meeting the UN's Sustainable Development
Goal that:

1. 1 billion more people should benefit from universal health coverage
2. 1 billion more people should be better protected from health emergencies
3. 1 billion more people should enjoy better health and well-being

AI is accelerating the growth of precision medicine and is generally well
received by both engineers and medical practitioners.

However, training datasets and solutions are being developed by community
members with no formal set of rules or ethics established specifically for
medical AI datasets and models. There is also difficulty in describing why a
model made the decision that it did which is crucial for the medical community.
Additionally, current AI models are unable to grasp the context to a problem.
Furthermore, there is a concern of medical bias in the both the training
datasets and the predictions of the models.

### Key Insights

The European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is making black box
solutions difficult to use in business because of their lack of explainability.
Thus there exists questions as these standards becomes mandatory such as:

- Who is legally responsible?
- Can we agree on ethics of medical AI?

### The Ten Commandments

01. It must be recognizable that and which part of a decision or action is taken
    and carried out by AI.
02. It must be recognizable which part of the communication is performed by an
    AI agent.
03. The responsibility for an AI decision, action, or communicative process must
    be taken by a competent physical or legal person.
04. AI decisions, actions, and communicative processes must be transparent and
    explainable.
05. An AI decision must be comprehensible and repeatable.
06. An explanation of an AI decision must be based on state-of-the-art
    (scientific) theories.
07. An AI decision, action, or communication must not be manipulative by
    pretending accuracy.
08. An AI decision, action, or communication must not violate any applicable law
    and must not lead to human harm.
09. An AI decision, action, or communication shall not be discriminatory. This
    applies in particular to the training of algorithms.
10. The target setting, control, and monitoring of AI decisions, actions, and
    communications shall not be performed by algorithms.

______________________________________________________________________

## Citations


=> https://doi.org/10.1109/MC.2021.3074263	0. https://doi.org/10.1109/MC.2021.3074263

