# A summary of On Being a Scientist: A Guide To Responsible Conduct In Research by the National Academy of Science, National Academy of Engineeringm and Institute of Medicine of the National Academies

Wednesday, February 1, 2023 · 4 minute read


# A summary of *On Being a Scientist: A Guide To Responsible Conduct In Research*

> Written by the National Academy of Science, National Academy of Engineeringm
> and Institute of Medicine of the National Academies

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *On Being a Scientist: A Guide To Responsible Conduct In Research*](#a-summary-of-on-being-a-scientist-a-guide-to-responsible-conduct-in-research)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Chapter Summaries](#chapter-summaries)
    - [The National Academies Advisorts to the Nation on Science, Engineering, and Medicine](#the-national-academies-advisorts-to-the-nation-on-science-engineering-and-medicine)
    - [Preface](#preface)
    - [A Note on Using *On Being a Scientist*](#a-note-on-using-on-being-a-scientist)
    - [Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research](#introduction-to-the-responsible-conduct-of-research)
    - [Advising and Mentoring](#advising-and-mentoring)
  - [Citations](#citations)

______________________________________________________________________

## Chapter Summaries

> Chapter specific summaries

### The National Academies Advisorts to the Nation on Science, Engineering, and Medicine

The **National Academy of Science** (NAS) (created in 1863) is a private,
non-profit, self-perpetuating society of distinguished scholars that are
required to advise the federal government on scientific and technical matters.

The **National Academy of Engineers** (NAE) (created in 1964) is a parallel
organization to NAS that also advises the federal government.

The **Institute of Medicine** (created in 1970) is a subsidary of NAS aimed at
advising the government about public health policy matters.

The **National Research Council** was created in 1916 to broadly advise on
research matters. It is now the primary concern of both NAS and NAE.

### Preface

Science is built upon trust. When trust is misplaced and professional standards
are violated, researchers feel attacked and that the base of their profession
has been undermined.

Many new researchers are not learning about how to conduct themselves as
scientists (a broad definition that includes anyone who is involved with the
pursuit of knowledge). This task used to be placed on more senior researchers.
However, as the speed of scientific developments, this task is often placed on
the back burner. Furthermore, exciting opportuninites keep appearing faster than
science can keep up, further contributing to the problem of not educating new
researchers on best practices.

Senior researchers have a special responsibility of upholding and promulgating
high standards in science. They should be role models, teachers, and mentors to
junior researchers.

### A Note on Using *On Being a Scientist*

This book explores options for handling situations, not defining what exactly to
do in a particular situation. This book should be read by a group of researchers
that discuss the topics within and figure out how to apply the lessons to their
practice.

The material within this book is not exhaustive, and many texts and websites now
exist to help supplement this material.

The existance of professional standards implies that there is a proper way to go
about a task or field. However, this book doesn't aim to cover specifics. To
address specific concerns, a committee consisting of a diverse group of
individuals from varying experience levels should be formed to identify and
discuss what is the professional standards. Furthermore, if your professional
has an established code of conduct or professional standards, those should be
referred to for specifics.

### Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research

Researchers pride themselves on observing or explaining phenonmenom which
haven't been seen or explained previously. However, researchers are often under
a great deal of personal and professional pressure. Failure to properly collect,
report, or handle data, experiments, or papers can result in lost time, money,
and respect.

Researchers have thus created professional standards over many centuries for
many different fields. It is therefore expected that researchers will adhere to
these standards.

Thus there is an obligation to honor the trust that their colleagues place in
them and vice versa. Irresponsible actions of others could potentially undermine
an entire field.

There is also an obligation for researchers to conduct themselves in a
responsible manner or else face potentially permanant damage to their
reputation.

Additionally, researchers have an obligation to the public. It is their results
that effect public policy which affects everyone. Additionally, their results
may have a butterfly effect that affects international peoples or policy.

A *scientific standard* is the application of the ethical values of honesty,
fairness, objectivity, openess, trustworthiness, and respect for others.

*Scientific misconduct* is defined as, "fabrication, falsification or plagiarism
in proposing, performing, or reviewing researcher, or in reporting research
results," by the US government.

Those that operate with *scientific misconduct* are said to work with
*questionable research practices*.

The *scientific standard* proliferates throughout the entirety of science, but
*scientific practices* (application of standards) differs from field to field.

### Advising and Mentoring

It is often best to build a diverse community of mentors as not one person has
the same experience, education, or background as another.

Being a mentor is not a one way street where the mentee only benefits. As a
mentor, you experience the benefits of being exposed to new ideas, building a
strong research program and collaboration network, and gain new friends plus
respect from beginning researchers. However, mentors have influence over the
start of a junior researcher's career, and must therefore be careful not to
abuse it. The main role of the mentor is to help the mentee move along a
productive and successful career trajectory.

<!-- TODO: continue from page 24 -->

______________________________________________________________________

## Citations


