# A summary of Dress Codes Podcast by Gimlet Media

Thursday, January 5, 2023 · 2 minute read


# A summary of *Dress Codes Podcast*

> Gimlet Media
> 2019
> https://gimletmedia.com/shows/dress-codes

For the summary of the paper, go to the [Summary](#summary) section of this article.

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *Dress Codes Podcast*](#a-summary-of-dress-codes-podcast)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Seeing Yoyself On Screen: Camille Friend](#seeing-yoyself-on-screen-camille-friend)
  - [The Powersuit Remixed: Rae Tutera](#the-powersuit-remixed-rae-tutera)
  - [Culottes to Karen O: Christian Joy](#culottes-to-karen-o-christian-joy)
  - [Doo-Knockers and Dior: Misa Hylton](#doo-knockers-and-dior-misa-hylton)
  - [Bun Huggers to White Oxfords: Clothing As Amor](#bun-huggers-to-white-oxfords-clothing-as-amor)
  - [Under the Spotlight in a Crop Top: Joel Kim Booster](#under-the-spotlight-in-a-crop-top-joel-kim-booster)
  - [Summarization Technique](#summarization-technique)
  - [Citations](#citations)

---

## About

*Dress Codes* by Gimlet Media is hosted by Emily Spivack.
It's a podcast about the clothing that guests wore at some of the most important parts of their carreer or life.
This podcast is sponsored by New Balence.

## Seeing Yoyself On Screen: Camille Friend

Camille Friend is a Hollywood hair stylist most famous for her work on the movie *Black Panther*.

She was, "born a hair stylist".
Her uncle owned a black hair salon which she worked at and got her spot.

As the hair stylist for *Black Panther*, she changed the game by asking all of the actors to come in with their natural hair.
This was different as black actors are asked to straighten and pre-style their hair prior to arriving on set.

## The Powersuit Remixed: Rae Tutera

## Culottes to Karen O: Christian Joy

## Doo-Knockers and Dior: Misa Hylton

## Bun Huggers to White Oxfords: Clothing As Amor

## Under the Spotlight in a Crop Top: Joel Kim Booster

---

## Summarization Technique

This podcast was summarized using a modified technique proposed by S. Keshav in his work *How to Read a Paper* \[0\].

## Citations


=> https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

=> https://gimletmedia.com/shows/dress-codes	1. https://gimletmedia.com/shows/dress-codes

