# A summary of Pervasive Security and Privacy by - A Brief Reflection on Challenges and Opportunities by Florian Alt

Sunday, February 19, 2023 · 4 minute read


# A summary of *Pervasive Security and Privacy by - A Brief Reflection on Challenges and Opportunities*

> Florian Alt IEEE Computer Volume 55; Issue 4, 2022 DOI \[0\]

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *Pervasive Security and Privacy by - A Brief Reflection on Challenges and Opportunities*](#a-summary-of-pervasive-security-and-privacy-by---a-brief-reflection-on-challenges-and-opportunities)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Summary](#summary)
    - [The State of Security and Privacy in Pervasive Computing](#the-state-of-security-and-privacy-in-pervasive-computing)
    - [Implications](#implications)
      - [Security and Privacy Decision Overload](#security-and-privacy-decision-overload)
      - [Unawareness of Data Sensitivity](#unawareness-of-data-sensitivity)
      - [Sensing Close to the Body](#sensing-close-to-the-body)
      - [Unclear Flow of Data](#unclear-flow-of-data)
      - [Multidevice Environments](#multidevice-environments)
    - [Challenges and Opportunities](#challenges-and-opportunities)
      - [Designing Appropriate Mechanisms](#designing-appropriate-mechanisms)
      - [Involvement of Different Stakeholders](#involvement-of-different-stakeholders)
      - [Out-of-the-Box Security and Privacy](#out-of-the-box-security-and-privacy)
      - [Adaptive security and Privacy Mechanisms](#adaptive-security-and-privacy-mechanisms)
  - [Citations](#citations)

______________________________________________________________________

## Summary

Pervasive computing developments open up the opportunity for different human
experiences and research. However, security and privacy methods must take into
account what these new developments bring to the table; including both the
positives and the negatives of such computing. With this technology, user states
and contexts can be more easily inferred as well as their emotional and
cognitive states.

This article is meant to give an overview of the challenges and opportunities
that arise within the security and privacy domain of pervasive computing.

### The State of Security and Privacy in Pervasive Computing

The *mainframe era* involved securing the intellectual rights of technologies
stored on big iron. The *personal computing era* involved securing protecting
the privacy and data of everyday users. The *pervasive computing era* will
involve protecting all of the data generating and capturing devices that a user
not only owns but interacts with.

Pervasive computing includes both traditional computing devices, but also edge
devices, smart devices and appliances, and internet software. Pervasive
computing allows for sensitive data to be accessed both locally and remotely,
and therefore presents new challenges w.r.t security and privacy.

Boundaries between domains are changing. For example, their used to be a barrier
between work and home, but with the COVID-19 pandemic, work and home became one.
This opened the doors to new attack vectors as it became more common for people
to work from home.

### Implications

#### Security and Privacy Decision Overload

As we interface with more and more computers, we (as users) become overloaded
with different authentication schemes and practices. Additionally, all of the
devices that we interact with have many different privacy permissions and
options that the user might not be aware of and therefore enable or disable.

#### Unawareness of Data Sensitivity

It is possible to generate many data points about an individual from a single
sensor. Therefore, it is imperative that users not only know about these
different data points, but also the implications for each data point. However,
it is currently very difficult to inform users of the importance of each data
point.

#### Sensing Close to the Body

Many of the [data sensitivity problems](#unawareness-of-data-sensitivity) arises
from users wearing sensors close to the body. These sensors can pick up on
health related information about an individual. Current sensor providers do very
little to protect this information. Therefore figuring out methods of obscuring
or reducing the collection of such information is important.

#### Unclear Flow of Data

It is very difficult to understand where all of the data from internet of things
(IoT) devices is being stored. Thus the flow of data from a sensor to the
end-user is unclear. What data goes to the cloud? What stays locally? How is
data accessed? Who can access that data? How is it processed? Which data is
being collected? Novel solutions (i.e., privacy labels/badges) must be developed
to answer these questions to protect consumers.

#### Multidevice Environments

There is a push by hardware and software developers to integrate experiences
tightly together via multidevice communication. For example, logging into
Netflix on a smart TV through your cell phone. However, these multidevice
experiences raise security and privacy concerns as there are more points of
failure and attack vectors as the number of devices involved scales.

### Challenges and Opportunities

#### Designing Appropriate Mechanisms

Better security interfaces need to be designed to promote users to protect their
data. Furthermore, good enough security practices (i.e., password
authentication) need to be revisited to see if and where areas of improvement
need to occur to better protect end users.

#### Involvement of Different Stakeholders

The end user is not the enemy with respect to security. Therefore, pervasive
computing technologies and experiences need to take into account the security
practices and limitations that end users experience and accommodate that. For
example, replacing password authentication with bio-metrics.

#### Out-of-the-Box Security and Privacy

Pervasive computing technologies need to be secure out-of-the-box and involve
very little user interaction to enable sensible security and privacy settings.

#### Adaptive security and Privacy Mechanisms

Pervasive computing can allow for authentication schemes based on the state of
the user. However, this information must simultaneously be protected and secured
in order to prevent data leaks.

______________________________________________________________________

## Citations


=> https://doi.org/10.1109/MPRV.2021.3110539	0. https://doi.org/10.1109/MPRV.2021.3110539

