# A summary of Where Are They Going? Clustering Event Camera Data to Detect and Track Moving Objects by Craig Laboni et al.

Thursday, February 23, 2023 · 1 minute read


# A summary of *Where Are They Going? Clustering Event Camera Data to Detect and Track Moving Objects*

> Craig Laboni et al.; IEEE Computing Edge, February 2023 DOI \[0\]

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *Where Are They Going? Clustering Event Camera Data to Detect and Track Moving Objects*](#a-summary-of-where-are-they-going-clustering-event-camera-data-to-detect-and-track-moving-objects)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Summary](#summary)
    - [Internet Of Things Application Of Event Cameras](#internet-of-things-application-of-event-cameras)
    - [Tutorial Learning Objectives](#tutorial-learning-objectives)
  - [Citations](#citations)

______________________________________________________________________

## Summary

Event based cameras are dynamic vision sensor based cameras that provide an new
mode of data capture and analysis for Computer Vision (CV) researchers. They
capture change in light intensities asynchronously and provide high speed
vision, low latency, and low power requirements.

### Internet Of Things Application Of Event Cameras

A list of applications that can be created with event based cameras include:

- High frame rate image capture
- Privacy enhanced computer vision as only changes in light are captured and not
  personally identifiable features
- Low power computer vision
- Low network bandwidth streaming

### Tutorial Learning Objectives

The remainder of this article is a tutorial on how to use event based camera
data for tracking objects. It is not summarized in this document. Readers should
read the tutorial \[0\].

______________________________________________________________________

## Citations


