# A summary of Runnemede: An Architecture for Ubiquitous High-Performance Computing by Nicholas P. Carter et al.

Friday, September 30, 2022 · 4 minute read


# A summary of *Runnemede: An Architecture for Ubiquitous High-Performance Computing*

> Nicholas P. Carter et al;
> [https://doi.org/10.1109/HPCA.2013.6522319](https://doi.org/10.1109/HPCA.2013.6522319)

For the summary of the paper, go to the [Summary](#summary) section of this
article.

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *Runnemede: An Architecture for Ubiquitous High-Performance Computing*](#a-summary-of-runnemede-an-architecture-for-ubiquitous-high-performance-computing)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [First Pass](#first-pass)
    - [Category](#category)
    - [Context](#context)
    - [Contributions](#contributions)
  - [Second Pass](#second-pass)
    - [Background Work](#background-work)
    - [Motivation](#motivation)
    - [Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs](#figures-diagrams-illustrations-and-graphs)
    - [Clarity](#clarity)
    - [Relevant Work](#relevant-work)
    - [Author Assumptions](#author-assumptions)
    - [Correctness](#correctness)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Summarization Technique](#summarization-technique)
  - [Citations](#citations)

______________________________________________________________________

## First Pass

> Discussion about the title, abstract, introduction, section and sub-section
> headings, and conclusion

The paper *Runnemede: An Architecture for Ubiquitous High-Performance Computing*
by Nicholas P. Carter et al. \[1\] describes the Runnemede high performance
computing architecture targeting extrene-scale systems. This architecture was
developed for the DARPA's Ubiquitous High-Performance Computing program. The
authors describe multiple facets of the architecture including the networking,
hardware and software design, the energy effeciencies of the architecture. They
also evaluate the performance of the architecture as well. Their mainy
contributions are a theoretical architecture that is well optimized for energy
effiecieny on extra-scale computers.

### Category

> What type of paper is this work?

This is a theoretical paper describing an architecture for HPC systems.

### Context

> What other *types* of papers is the work related to?

Similar works would involve HPC architecture descriptions as well as low powered
computing architectures as well.

### Contributions

> What are the author's main contributions?

Their contributions are a theoretical design and analysis of a HPC architecture
focused on energy effieciency.

______________________________________________________________________

## Second Pass

### Background Work

> What has been done prior to this paper?

Runnemede is a one of four architectures under the DARPA UHPC program.
Additionally, work has been done before to build both low powered cluster
computers, and HPC.

### Motivation

> Why should we care about this paper?

The justification for this work is that there exists a theory that larger and
larger HPC computers will require more and more power, without fully utilizing
the entire device array. Additionally, a test chip was designed, but never
produced, called "Sunshine". By designing this chip, the authors were able to
theoretically test the ideas presented in the paper as well as develop new ones
for the architecture.

### Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs

> Are the axes properly labeled? Are results shown with error bars, so that
> conclusions are statistically significant?

All of the figures and tables are clear and easy to understand.

### Clarity

> Is the paper well written?

The paper is well written and clear to understand.

### Relevant Work

> Mark relevant work for review

The following relevant work can be found in the [Citations](#citations) section
of this article.

- \[2\]

### Author Assumptions

> What assumptions does the author(s) make? Are they justified assumptions?

The author's assumed that, "... The power consumed by logic is expected to scale
well as feature sizes shrink, but not as well as transistor density, leading to
the design of *overprovisioned, energy-limited* systems that contain more
hardware than they can operate simultanously". In other words, systems will have
more and more *power hungry* hardware that cannot be utilized in its entirety.
Additionally, they assume that the current trend with DRAM will cause power
consumption to decrement over time, but not fast enough.

#### Correctness

> Do the assumptions seem valid?

As the year is 2022, the current next generation hardware from NVIDIA, Intel,
and AMD has been announced, all of which require immense power draw to operate.
Additionally, DDR5 DRAM exists and consumes less power than the previous DDR4
DRAM. Therefore, I agree with the assumptions of the authors.

______________________________________________________________________

## Summary

> A summary of the paper

The paper *Runnemede: An Architecture for Ubiquitous High-Performance Computing*
by Nicholas P. Carter et al. \[1\] describes the Runnemede high performance
computing architecture targeting extrene-scale systems. This architecture was
developed for the DARPA's Ubiquitous High-Performance Computing program to
address overprovisioned, energy limited HPC architecture designs. The authors
proposed a theoretical architecture design, and justify it via benchmarking that
they performed with simulations. Their work assumes (correctly in my opinion)
that systems will continue to require more power to operate in order to achieve
better performance.

______________________________________________________________________

## Summarization Technique

This paper was summarized using a modified technique proposed by S. Keshav in
his work *How to Read a Paper* \[0\].

## Citations


=> https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

=> https://doi.org/10.1109/HPCA.2013.6522319	1. https://doi.org/10.1109/HPCA.2013.6522319

=> https://doi.org/10.1109/MM.2011.89	2. https://doi.org/10.1109/MM.2011.89

