# A summary of ORI Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research by Nicholas H. Steneck

Friday, January 13, 2023 · 7 minute read


# A summary of *ORI Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research*

> Written by Nicholas H. Steneck

For the summary of the book, go to the [Summary](#summary) section of this
article.

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *ORI Introduction to the Responsible Conduct of Research*](#a-summary-of-ori-introduction-to-the-responsible-conduct-of-research)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Chapter Summaries](#chapter-summaries)
    - [Foreward](#foreward)
    - [Preface](#preface)
    - [Chapter 1: Rules of the Road](#chapter-1-rules-of-the-road)
    - [Chapter 2: Research Misconduct](#chapter-2-research-misconduct)
    - [Chapter 3: The Protection of Human Subjects](#chapter-3-the-protection-of-human-subjects)
    - [Chapter 4: The Welfare of Laboratory Animals](#chapter-4-the-welfare-of-laboratory-animals)
    - [Chapter 5: Conflicts of Interest](#chapter-5-conflicts-of-interest)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Citations](#citations)

______________________________________________________________________

## Chapter Summaries

> Chapter specific summaries

### Foreward

This book is published by the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) as supplemental
material to assist in the teaching of the responsible conduct of research. The
ORI oversees and directs the Public Health Service (PHS) research integrety on
behalf of the Secretary of Health and Human Services as well as the American
public. This book stems from the ethics that were raised in biology related
fields in 1989 and has sinced expanded to become more general and applicable to
other disciplines.

### Preface

As the importance of science and technology increases, so too has the public's
demand for the responsible conduct of research. Simply put, this means that good
citizenship is applied to a researcher's professional life. However, as each
field is different, so too does what "good citizenship" mean within each field.
This book was written to briefly introduce researchers to what is generally
accepted as responsible conduct regardless of their working field.

### Chapter 1: Rules of the Road

There aren't clear rules laid out to for researcher's to easily understand what
is and isn't responsible research conduct. Rather, there are many organizing
bodies, both official and non-official, that govern what is and isn't
responsible. Furthermore, a researcher's personal judgement must also solve this
ethical calculus. In order of importance of whose rules to listen too, it goes:
Professional Codes, Federal, State, institutional policies, and personal
judgement. Not all professions have Professional Codes. Federal regulations have
to first be made available for public comment in the *Federal Register*, and
once accepted, are incorporated into the *Code of Federal Regulations* and must
be followed. Researchers are advised to seek help in understanding Federal
rules.

### Chapter 2: Research Misconduct

Research misconduct policies provide guidance on responsible conduct in these
three areas:

```text
1. Establish definitions for misconduct in research,
2. Outline procedures for reporting and investigating misconduct, and
3. Provide protection for whistleblowers and person accused of misconduct.
```

Federal regulations for research misconduct technically only apply at the
Federal level, but many institutions incorporate and expand it within their own
policies. The Office of Science and Technology Policy's (OSTP), a Federal
agenct, definition of research misconduct is, "fabrication, falsification, or
plagiarism in proposing, performing, or reviewing research, or in reporting
research results". For an action to be considered research misconduct, it must
meet the following criteria:

```text
1. Represent a, "significant departure from accepted practices",
2. Have been, "committed intentionally, or knowingly, or recklessly"; and
3. Be, "proven by a prponderance of evidence".
```

The federal policy puts the responsibility of research misconduct reporting and
investigation on both *researchers* and *their research institutions*. Research
misconduct puts a researcher's career on the line. Additionally, a whistleblower
runs the risk of illegal retaliation. Furthermore, the accused researcher(s)
only face punishment when proven guilty.

The violation of Federal rules, abuse of confidentiality, authorship and
publication violations, failure to report misconduct, obstruction of misconduct
investigations, and other institutional level policies can be classified as
research misconduct. It is assumed that research misconduct is under reported.
Regardless, this misconduct taints the public image of research, wastes donated
or tax-funded dollars, and harms both the professional reputations of
researchers and institutions.

### Chapter 3: The Protection of Human Subjects

Human subjects are used in order to find improvements to the human experience.
This could involve the creation of new medicines, surgeries, or experiments.

Researchers who use human subjects are subject to Federal regulations. Both the
Nuremberg Code and the Declaration of Helsinki are guidelines that are to be
followed when testing on human subjects. Additionally, the Federal regulation 45
CFR 46 Subparts A - D, known as the "Common Rule", are expected to be followed
as well. Exempt research from the "Common Rule" include:

```text
- Research conducted in established or commonly accepted educational settings,
- Research involving the use of educational tests,
- Research involving the collection or study of existing data, documents, records, pathological specimens, or diagnostic specimens, if unidentifiable or publicly availible,
Research and demonstration projects which are conducted by or subject to the approval of department or agency heads; or
Taste and food quality evaluation and consumer acceptance studies.
```

Any institution that performs human research must have a Federally mandated
Internal Review Board (IRB) consisting of at least 5 people, one of which is a
scientist, one of which is a non-scientist, and one who is not affiliated with
the institution. Furthermore, all researchers working with human subjects must
undergo National Institutes of Health (NIH) training.

All human subjects must have to informed consent and the right to withdraw.
Furthermore, there is an ethical concern in human subjects research that some
experiments have risks without any benefits.

### Chapter 4: The Welfare of Laboratory Animals

Research on animal subjects is done to benefit humans without experimenting on
humans. The 1966 Animal Welfare Act and the 1985 Health and Research Extension
Act both act as Federal regulations that researcher's experimenting on human
subjects must abide by. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is
responsible for the transportation, care, and use of animals. The usage of
animals for biomedical and behavioral research is subject to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services (HHS), acting through the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) and the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW), NIH.
Furthermore, activists have put together guidelines through the Animal Care
Panel (ACP) commonly reffered to as th Guide. The *Guide* is widely accepted
both in public and private institutions as well as Federal laboratories.

The definition of an animal from the PHS Policy is, "any live, vertebrate
animals used or inteded for use in research, research training, experimentation,
or biological testing or for related purposes". the definition of an animal from
the Common Rule that implements the Animal Welfare Act includes warm blooded
animals (mammals) but excludes, "Birds, rats of the genus Rattus and mice of the
genus Mus bred for use in research, and horses not used for research purposes
and other farm animals".

Institutions testing on animals must create an Institutional Animal Care and Use
Committee (IACUC) which acts similarly to an IRB but for animals. These, along
with the OLAW, USDA, and accrediation programs, are responsible for the proper
care and respect of animal subjects. Prior to using animal subjects, researchers
must defend the usage of animal subjects against the "three R's":

```text
1. Replacement - using non-animal models such asmicroorganisms or cell culture techniques, computer simulations, or species lower on the phulogenetic scale,
2. Reduction - using methods aimed at reducing the numbers of animals such as minimization of variability, appropriate selection of animal model, minimization of animal loss, and careful experimental design, and
3. Refinement - the elimination or reduction of unnecessary pain and distress [in animal subjects].
```

### Chapter 5: Conflicts of Interest

Researchers can experience three different types of conflicts of interest:

1. Financial gain,
2. Work commitments, and
3. Intellectual and personal matters.

Financial gains involve reciving money from an institute that the researcher has
a vested in. This could involve having stock in the company, or being a member
of the company.

Work commitments involve colluding multiple working positions into one in order
to serve a singular purpose. In other words, if a position at work is being used
to further a research objective or vice versa, it is a conflict of interest.

Intellectual and personal matter conflicts of interest occur when the idealogy,
beliefs, or viewpoint of a researcher could interfere with their research
objectives. As an example (not mentioned in this book; purely my own thought
probably taken from someone else) is a pro-life reseacher working on
abortificants.

______________________________________________________________________

## Summary

> A summary of the entire book

______________________________________________________________________

## Citations


