# A summary of Applying SVMS To Face Detection by Edgar Osuna

Monday, October 24, 2022 · 2 minute read


# A summary of *TITLE*

> Author names DOI

For the summary of the paper, go to the [Summary](#summary) section of this
article.

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *TITLE*](#a-summary-of-title)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [First Pass](#first-pass)
    - [Category](#category)
    - [Context](#context)
    - [Contributions](#contributions)
  - [Second Pass](#second-pass)
  - [Background Work](#background-work)
  - [Motivation](#motivation)
    - [Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs](#figures-diagrams-illustrations-and-graphs)
    - [Clarity](#clarity)
    - [Relevant Work](#relevant-work)
  - [Third Pass](#third-pass)
    - [Author Assumptions](#author-assumptions)
    - [Correctness](#correctness)
    - [Discussion of the Proofs](#discussion-of-the-proofs)
    - [How Would I Present the Idea(s)](#how-would-i-present-the-ideas)
    - [Future Directions](#future-directions)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Summarization Technique](#summarization-technique)
  - [Citations](#citations)

______________________________________________________________________

## First Pass

> Discussion about the title, abstract, introduction, section and sub-section
> headings, and conclusion

(as part of the larger *Support vector machine* collection of essays in the
July/ August edition of the 1998 IEEE Intelligent Systems magazine) \[1\]

### Category

> What type of paper is this work?

### Context

> What other *types* of papers is the work related to?

### Contributions

> What are the author's main contributions?

______________________________________________________________________

## Second Pass

## Background Work

> What has been done prior to this paper?

## Motivation

> Why should we care about this paper?

### Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs

> Are the axes properly labeled? Are results shown with error bars, so that
> conclusions are statistically significant?

### Clarity

> Is the paper well written?

### Relevant Work

> Mark relevant work for review

The following relevant work can be found in the [Citations](#citations) section
of this article.

______________________________________________________________________

## Third Pass

> This section can only be complete after a virtual re-implementation of the
> paper

### Author Assumptions

> What assumptions does the author(s) make? Are they justified assumptions?

### Correctness

> Do the assumptions seem valid?

### Discussion of the Proofs

### How Would I Present the Idea(s)

### Future Directions

> My own proposed future directions for the work

______________________________________________________________________

## Summary

> A summary of the paper

______________________________________________________________________

## Summarization Technique

This paper was summarized using the technique proposed by S. Keshav in his work
*How to Read a Paper* \[0\].

## Citations


=> https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

=> https://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/5254.708428	1. https://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/5254.708428

