---
title: Hello World
description: An introduction to me, this site, and the content I want to make.
summary: An introduction to me, this site, and the content I want to make.

catagories: ['']
citations: ['']

draft: false

date: 2022-07-28T19:47:48-05:00
featured_image: ''
include_toc: true
markup: md
outputs: []
show_comments: false
toc: true
---

# Hello World<a name="hello-world"></a>

> An introduction to me, this site, and the content I want to make.

______________________________________________________________________

<!-- mdformat-toc start --slug=github --maxlevel=6 --minlevel=1 -->

- [Hello World](#hello-world)
  - [Hi there!](#hi-there)
  - [What's up with this site?](#whats-up-with-this-site)
  - [What content is coming?](#what-content-is-coming)

<!-- mdformat-toc end -->

## Hi there!<a name="hi-there"></a>

My name is Nicholas M. Synovic.

At the time of writing, I'm a Research Assistant at Loyola University Chicago
with the Software and Systems Laboratory. I graduated Loyola in May of 2022 with
a B.S in Computer Science. Currently, I'm pursuing a M.S in Computer Science
with a concentration in Artificial Intelligence. My concentration is more
specifically targetting low power computer vision systems.

As an undergrad, I pursued and lead Software Engineering Metrics research and
was successfully able to publish a paper into the IEEE ASE 2022 confrence's
tools track as the lead author. In addition, I was fortunate enough to be an
author on a Software Engineering paper focussing on deep learning model reuse
with researchers from Purude University. I currently work on both Software
Engineering and Computer Vision research.

In addition to my academic work, I have experience leading IT teams and
developing full stack software. I was one of the first in my high school to join
the student IT program which performed real world maintaince on my district's
network, personal, and tech infrastructure. As a 2nd year student at Loyola, I
won second place at the Fall Student Showcase for my work in identifying and
providing solution for Congress.gov's search functionality as well as creating a
dataset of all the content on Congress.gov. And as a 4th year senior, I
developed an application for Medline Industries to facilitate their corporate
wide Talent Planning Process. This application was used to assess ~30,000
employees in 2022 to find the next generation of leaders.

For further information on how to contact me, see my Contact page.

## What's up with this site?<a name="whats-up-with-this-site"></a>

This site is generated from Markdown using Hugo and the Ananke theme.

This decision was made due to Hugo's extensive templating feature, which allows
me to accessible to those using HTTP, Gopher, and Gemini protocols. I intend to
use this site to experiment with other alternative network protocols as they are
developed.

This site is also mirrored across several different services. Currently, it is
hosted on both GitHub Pages as `https://nsynovic.dev`. Blog posts are mirrored
on my the Gopher and Gemini versions of this site, as well as my Dev.to page. In
addition, I intend to use my account at `tilde.team` to add an additional backup
of the HTTP site there as well.

## What content is coming?<a name="what-content-is-coming"></a>

I don't have a set plan at the moment, however, I intend to provide less
academicly leaning posts on this site. Think more opinion pieces, tutorials, or
other ramblings. Primarily text based content will be posted on this site as
there are other platforms that are better at hosting multimedia content.
