# A summary of Fast R-CNN by Ross Girshick

Thursday, November 10, 2022 · 4 minute read


# A summary of *Fast R-CNN*

> Ross Girshick, IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, 2015;
> [DOI](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_iccv_2015/html/Girshick_Fast_R-CNN_ICCV_2015_paper.html)

For the summary of the paper, go to the [Summary](#summary) section of this
article.

## Table of Contents

- [A summary of *Fast R-CNN*](#a-summary-of-fast-r-cnn)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [First Pass](#first-pass)
    - [Problem](#problem)
    - [Motivation](#motivation)
    - [Category](#category)
    - [Context](#context)
    - [Contributions](#contributions)
  - [Second Pass](#second-pass)
    - [Background Work](#background-work)
    - [Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs](#figures-diagrams-illustrations-and-graphs)
    - [Clarity](#clarity)
    - [Relevant Work](#relevant-work)
    - [Methodology](#methodology)
    - [Author Assumptions](#author-assumptions)
      - [Correctness](#correctness)
    - [Future Directions](#future-directions)
    - [Open Questions](#open-questions)
    - [Author Feedback](#author-feedback)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Summarization Technique](#summarization-technique)
  - [Citations](#citations)

______________________________________________________________________

## First Pass

> Read the title, abstract, introduction, section and sub-section headings, and
> conclusion

### Problem

> What is the problem addressed in the paper?

The problem addressed in this paper is that there exists a method that is better
at performing object detection and semantic segmentation within region proposals
that is not implemented in either the original R-CNN model or the SPPNet model.

### Motivation

> Why should we care about this paper?

Because it provides an updated model architecture for performing object
detection and semantic segmentation within region proposals, thereby speeding up
inference time and reducing computational cost.

### Category

> What type of paper is this work?

This is a CNN paper.

### Context

> What other *types* of papers is the work related to?

Papers that discuss CNN models with respect to region proposals.

### Contributions

> What are the author's main contributions?

An updated R-CNN model that is substantially faster than the original R-CNN
model and the competing SPPNet model. This Fast R-CNN model achieves SOTA mean
average precision (mAP) on the PASCAL VOC 2007, 2010, and 2012 datasets. Fast
training and testing compared to R-CNN and SPPNet. And that fine tuning ConvNet
layers in VGG 16 improves mAP.

______________________________________________________________________

## Second Pass

> A proper read through of the paper is required to answer this

### Background Work

> What has been done prior to this paper?

Region proposal convolutional neural networks have been created prior to this
work. Furthermore, this work utilizes techniques that other successful CV DL
models have utilized to achieve SOTA results.

### Figures, Diagrams, Illustrations, and Graphs

> Are the axes properly labeled? Are results shown with error bars, so that
> conclusions are statistically significant?

The majority of the figures are clear. Figure 2 is a bit difficult to read due
to how squished the text is to each other. Additionally, the model architecture
in Figure 1 uses an identical image as presented in the seminal R-CNN paper. It
would have been nicer to see a different test image utilized for this paper.

### Clarity

> Is the paper well written?

This paper is well written, if a bit technical. However, the technicality is
important as it distinguishes the improvements made to the original R-CNN and
SPPNet models.

### Relevant Work

> Mark relevant work for review

The following relevant work can be found in the [Citations](#citations) section
of this article.

### Methodology

> What methodology did the author's use to validate their contributions?

They performed a similar study to their previous paper (R-CNN) where they
compared the mAP of competing models against their model. Additionally, they
performed an analysis of their model where they tested different improvements
and DL techniques used in other models to improve performance.

### Author Assumptions

> What assumptions does the author(s) make? Are they justified assumptions?

They utilized the VGG 16 model as their CNN model. However, other existing
models could've been used/ re-implemented with their fast region proposal model
to potentially improve performance.

#### Correctness

> Do the assumptions seem valid?

This assumption makes sense to a degree as VGG 16 is a popular model for
research purposes. However, evaluating other CNN models would have been more
interesting in my opinion.

### Future Directions

> My own proposed future directions for the work

I'd like to implement there work on non-VGG 16 models, such as ResNet or on a
MobileNet.

### Open Questions

> What open questions do I have about the work?

Why weren't other models implemented with the fast region proposal component?

### Author Feedback

> What feedback would I give to the authors?

Overall good paper. I don't recommend on creating a paper of a third variation
of this model unless there are substantial improvements made. These improvements
can be in further reducing computational or energy cost, an even simpler
architecture, or an substantial overall increase of mAP on the PASCAL VOC
datasets.

______________________________________________________________________

## Summary

> A summary of the paper

The paper *Fast R-CNN* by Ross Girshick \[1\] proposes a new method to perform
region proposal CNN tasks that is significantly faster than the previously
proposed method. To do so, both the region proposals and the image itself are
passed into the CNN layer for analysis. Additionally, many layers of the
previous architectures are collapsed into one to reduce the complexity.
Furthermore, the SVM classifier was replaced with a Softmax classifier which is
both faster and more accurate than the previous SVM classifier.

______________________________________________________________________

______________________________________________________________________

## Summarization Technique

This paper was summarized using a modified technique proposed by S. Keshav in
his work *How to Read a Paper* \[0\].

## Citations


=> https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458	0. https://doi.org/10.1145/1273445.1273458

=> https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_iccv_2015/html/Girshick_Fast_R-CNN_ICCV_2015_paper.html	1. https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_iccv_2015/html/Girshick_Fast_R-CNN_ICCV_2015_paper.html

